Enable env var configuration, defaulting, validation (#262)
microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Python: azure-monitor-opentelemetry/README.md

You can use `configure_azure_monitor` to set up instrumentation for your app to Azure Monitor. `configure_azure_monitor` supports the following optional arguments:

| Parameter | Description | Environment Variable |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `connection_string` | The [connection string][connection_string_doc] for your Application Insights resource. The connection string will be automatically populated from the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING` environment variable if not explicitly passed in. | `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING` |
| `exclude_instrumentations` | By default, all supported [instrumentations](#officially-supported-instrumentations) are enabled to collect telemetry. Specify instrumentations you do not want to enable to collect telemetry by passing in a comma separated list of instrumented library names. e.g. `["requests", "flask"]` | |

> | `resource` | Specified the OpenTelemetry [resource][opentelemetry_spec_resource] associated with your application. See [this][ot_sdk_python_resource] for default behavior. This include configuration via the `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` and `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` environment variables. | `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` and `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource` | Specifies the OpenTelemetry [resource][opentelemetry_spec_resource] associated with your application. See [this][ot_sdk_python_resource] for default behavior. | [OTEL_SERVICE_NAME][opentelemetry_spec_service_name], [OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES][opentelemetry_spec_resource_attributes] |
```

Reviewer: At the bottom add links for:

[opentelemetry_spec_service_name]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/main/specification/resource/semantic_conventions#semantic-attributes-with-sdk-provided-default-value
[opentelemetry_spec_resource_attributes]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md#specifying-resource-information-via-an-environment-variable

Author: Done

You can use `configure_azure_monitor` to set up instrumentation for your app to Azure Monitor. `configure_azure_monitor` supports the following optional arguments:

* connection_string - The [connection string][connection_string_doc] for your Application Insights resource. The connection string will be automatically populated from the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING` environment variable if not explicitly passed in.

> * exclude_instrumentations - By default, all supported [instrumentations](#officially-supported-instrumentations) are enabled to collect telemetry. Specify instrumentations you do not want to enable to collect telemetry by passing in a comma separated list of instrumented library names. Can also be set via the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_EXCLUDE_INSTRUMENTATIONS` environment variable. e.g. `["requests", "flask"]`

Reviewer: Have the `APPLICATION_INSIGHTS_*` env var configurations been discussed with the other distro owners?

> * resource - Specified the OpenTelemetry [resource][opentelemetry_spec_resource] associated with your application. See [this][ot_sdk_python_resource] for default behavior. This include configuration via environment variables.

Reviewer: Do you think it would be more intuitive if we had this in a table format? The headers would be `| Parameter | Description | Env Vars`

Author: Good idea. I'll try that

Author: Done.

Author: Donea

> * resource - Specified the OpenTelemetry [resource][opentelemetry_spec_resource] associated with your application. See [this][ot_sdk_python_resource] for default behavior. This include configuration via environment variables.

Reviewer: Please include the relevant env vars for `Resource`.

Author: Can do

Author: Done

* disable_metrics - If set to `True`, disables collection and export of metric telemetry. Can also be set via the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_DISABLE_METRICS` environment variable. Defaults to `False`.
* disable_tracing - If set to `True`, disables collection and export of distributed tracing telemetry. Can also be set via the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_DISABLE_TRACING` environment variable. Defaults to `False`.
* logging_level - Specifies the [logging level][logging_level] of the logs you would like to collect for your logging pipeline. Can also be set via the `OTEL_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable. This environment variable should be set to the number that represents the log leval, not a string representing that log level's name. Defaults to 0 which is logging.NOTSET.
* logger_name = Specifies the [logger name][logger_name_hierarchy_doc] under which logging will be instrumented. Can also be set via the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_LOGGER_NAME` environment variable. Defaults to "" which corresponds to the root logger.

> * logging_export_interval_ms - Specifies the logging export interval in milliseconds. Can also be set via the `OTEL_BLRP_SCHEDULE_DELAY` environment variable. Defaults to 5000.

Reviewer: I think `OTEL_BLRP_SCHEDULE_DELAY` doesn't exist yet right? Are you going to be adding this.

Author: Yeah. Check out my comment in configurations.py. It's speced out so I'm using it in the distro until it's automatically used in the OTel sdk

* metric_readers - Specifies the [metric readers][ot_metric_reader] that you would like to use for your metric pipeline. Accepts a list of [metric readers][ot_sdk_python_metric_reader].
* views - Specifies the list of [views][opentelemetry_spec_view] to configure for the metric pipeline. See [here][ot_sdk_python_view_examples] for example usage.

> * sampling_ratio - Specifies the ratio of distributed tracing telemetry to be [sampled][application_insights_sampling]. Accepted values are in the range [0,1]. Can also be set with the `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG` environment variable. Defaults to 1.0, meaning no telemetry is sampled out.

Reviewer: I believe `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG` only works with [traceid](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python/blob/b6a1b22fa65f41bdefb01d64b76e5e793d039f6d/opentelemetry-sdk/src/opentelemetry/sdk/trace/sampling.py#L437) samplers. We might need to change the logic in OT to accept any sampler that takes in an arg?

Author: I'll check but I'm pretty sure auto-instrumentation is currently using this argument for all samplers including ours. Maybe I am not understanding.

> * tracing_export_interval_ms - Specifies the distributed tracing export interval in milliseconds. Can also be set via the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_TRACING_EXPORT_INTERVAL_MS` environment variable. Defaults to 5000.

Reviewer: I believe the OT `OTEL_BSP_SCHEDULE_DELAY` variable already exists.

Author: You're right, I didn't add this Env var. Just a mistake.

> * instrumentation_config - Specifies a dictionary of kwargs that will be applied to instrumentation configuration. You can specify which instrumentation you want to configure by name in the key field and value as a dictionary representing `kwargs` for the corresponding instrumentation. Can also be set via the `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_INSTRUMENTATION_CONFIG` environment variable.

Reviewer: This might not work since instrumentation configuration values could be values that aren't strings, and env vars only contain string values. We would need ways to smartly parse string values for this to work. Might be a bit too complicated to support right now.

Take a look at the specific [instrumenation][ot_instrumentations] documentation for available configurations.

> When configuring list or dictionary arguments via their respective environment variables, the environment variable values with be interpretted as JSON objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring list or dictionary arguments via their respective environment variables, the environment variable values with be interpreted as JSON objects.
```
